6.0.3-release-notes.adoc (#2441)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.0.3-release-notes.adoc

= TinyMCE 6.0.3
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.0.3
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.0.3
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.0.3 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, June 1^st^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.0.3. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.0.3:

* xref:general-bug-fixes[General bug fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[general-bug-fixes]]
== General bug fixes

{productname} 6.0.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:

> === When multiple cells were selected, removing values in the cell properties dialog did not work

Reviewer: Should we just squash these 2 into one entry (cell and row properties)? They are effectively the same thing and looking back I'm thinking we should have done that with the changelog as well.

Author: That was my inclination before starting, but I was following the _each ChangeLog entry is a separate change, requiring separate documentation_ modus operandi.

I presumed, further, there was at least some chance folks in the wild had encountered the bug one way but not the other, which is further (albeit very small) justification for writing the two Changelog entries up separately.

Author: All this said, smooshing this into one entry is easily done.

Reviewer: Yeah I'm not sure what to do in all honesty. Happy to leave it as is or to squash it, that is to say whatever you think is best 😄

Author: On the _it’s not sufficiently broken to require fixing_ principal, and the further _this follows the extant form and following said form does have utility_ principal (in this case the one-to-one relationship between Changelog entries and Release Note entries), I’m going the lazy route and leaving this be.

> Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more columns, the cell properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple rows were selected.

Author: Edited your edit to correct the error.

> If multiple table cells were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and delete the `height` value worked as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If multiple table cells were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.
```
?

With this update, selecting multiple cells, invoking the cell properties dialog, and removing `height` values across the selected cells works as expected, with all cell heights deleted at once.

=== When multiple rows were selected, removing values in the cell properties dialog did not work

Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more columns, the cell properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple rows were selected.

> If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the height value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and delete the height value worked as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the height value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the height value worked as expected.
```
?

With this update, selecting multiple cells, invoking the cell properties dialog, and removing height values across the selected cells works as expected, with all cell heights deleted at once.

NOTE: this is related to the near-equivalent bug regarding cell properties deletion not being honored when multiple cells were selected. The two, slightly different, behaviors are being documented separately for clarity’s sake, and because some people only encountered one or other errant behavior.

=== `format_empty_lines` did not work as documented

> Previously, when `format_empty_lines` was set to `true`, lines that included no text (ie, a line consisting of just a Return) did not preserved inline formatting when saved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, when `format_empty_lines` was set to `true`, lines that included no text (ie, a line consisting of just a Return) did not preserve inline formatting when saved.
```

So, for example, a line

[source,html]
----
<p> 
<em> 
<strong> 
<span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;" ><br /></span> 
</strong> 
</em> 
</p> 
----

when saved, became

[source,html]
----
<p> 
&nbsp; 
</p> 
----

That is, the line was preserved, but the formatting was not.

With this update, `format_empty_lines: true` behaves as it should (and as advertised), and formatting added to an otherwise empty line is preserved when saved.

NOTE: by default `format_empty_lines` is set to `false`.

> === Some inline text elements specified via the schema were not removed when empty by default

Author: ```suggestion
=== Some inline elements specified by the {productname} schema were not removed by default when empty
```

Author: An edit to the heading for this bug fix documentation

Reviewer: Do we want to do this? We generally try to keep it the same so it has a correlation to the changelog entry... that said though for small bug fixes like this we've never gone into this level of detail so it's probably fine 😄

Author: > Do we want to do this? We generally try to keep it the same so it has a correlation to the changelog entry...

Fair point. And not even on my mind, I’m afraid, when I did the edit. I was editing for readability, treating the ur-text as malleable. An argument for getting editorial eyes on the Changelog entries?

> that said though for small bug fixes like this we've never gone into this level of detail so it's probably fine

My inner once-a-sysadmin-always-a-sysadmin at work, I fear.

> // any further information on this greatly appreciated.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the {productname} schema removes empty inline +html+ elements.

Previously, however, some inline +html+ elements — including +s+, +u+, +var+, +cite+, +dfn+, +code+, +mark+, +q+, +sup+, +sub+, and +samp+ — were not removed when they were present but empty.

With this update, when the schema sets the default +removeEmpty+ flag, empty inline +html+ elements such as those noted above are removed, as expected.
```

Author: A first draft of actual description for this change.

Reviewer: > With this update, when the schema sets the default +removeEmpty+ flag, empty inline +html+ elements such as those noted above are removed, as expected.

Is confusing me a little. I think it's just the ordering so maybe something like this:
> With this update, inline +html+ elements such as those noted above will have the +removeEmpty+ schema flag set, as expected.

Author: Works for me: draft updated as per your edit.

=== The default {productname} schema did not include the `<s>` element

> Previously, the default {productname} schema did not include the `+<s>+` element. Consequently, formatting text with `Strike-through` did not render as expected.

Reviewer: This is not correct from looking at Luke's change. It was missing the `<s>` element for the `text inline elements` part of the schema only, and it was still included in other places (for example the full element list). The effect here meant that anything that relied on `schema.getTextInlineElements()` API may not have correctly handled the `<s>` element as an inline text element. It would still render correctly with that missing component.

= TinyMCE 6.0.3
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.0.3
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.0.3
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.0.3 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, June 1^st^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.0.3. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.0.3:

* xref:general-bug-fixes[General bug fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[general-bug-fixes]]
== General bug fixes

{productname} 6.0.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:

=== When multiple cells were selected, removing values in the cell properties dialog did not work

Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more cells, the cell properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple cells were selected.

> If multiple table cells were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
If multiple table cells were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting, for example, the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.
```

Author: Added a sub-clause — for example — to reiterate the point about _most of the properties in the dialog_.

With this update, selecting multiple cells, invoking the cell properties dialog, and removing `height` values across the selected cells works as expected, with all cell heights deleted at once.

=== When multiple rows were selected, removing values in the row properties dialog did not work

Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more rows, the row properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple rows were selected.

> If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting the height value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the height value worked as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting, for example, the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.
```

Author: Added the same sub-clause. Also caught my own typos: had `height` marked up in the equivalent paragraph above, but not this one.

So, for example, a line

[source,html]
----
<p> 
<em> 
<strong> 
<span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;" ><br /></span> 
</strong> 
</em> 
</p> 
----

when saved, became

[source,html]
----
<p> 
&nbsp; 
</p> 
----

That is, the line was preserved, but the formatting was not.

With this update, `format_empty_lines: true` behaves as it should (and as advertised), and formatting added to an otherwise empty line is preserved when saved.

NOTE: by default `format_empty_lines` is set to `false`.

=== Some inline elements specified by the {productname} schema were not removed by default when empty

By default, the {productname} schema removes empty inline +html+ elements.

Previously, however, some inline +html+ elements — including +s+, +u+, +var+, +cite+, +dfn+, +code+, +mark+, +q+, +sup+, +sub+, and +samp+ — were not removed when they were present but empty.

With this update, inline +html+ elements such as those noted above will have the +removeEmpty+ schema flag set, as expected.

=== The default {productname} schema did not include the `<s>` element

> Previously, the default {productname} schema did not include the `+<s>+` element. Consequently, formatting text with `Strike-through` did not render as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
Previously, the default {productname} schema did not include the `+<s>+` element in the text inline elements section of the schema. The element was included in the full element list, however.

Consequently, although `Strike-through` elements rendered as expected, anything that relied on the `schema.getTextInlineElements()` API may not have handled the `+<s>+` element correctly.

This update corrects the omission in the {productname} schema and `+<s>+` elements are now handled correctly by the `schema.getTextInlineElements()` API.
```

A re-write correcting the above.

Reviewer: Should `Strike` be capitalised? Also re the last sentence, it's not really "handled" by that API it's just included in the returned list. So maybe something like this?
```
This update corrects the omission in the {productname} schema and `+<s>+` element is now correctly returned by the `schema.getTextInlineElements()` API.
```

Author: Edited my suggestion as per your note. Thanks.

> With this update, the `+<s>+` element is part of the default {productname} schema, as expected.

Author: ```suggestion

```

[[general-bug-fixes]]
== General bug fixes

{productname} 6.0.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:

=== When multiple cells were selected, removing values in the cell properties dialog did not work

Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more cells, the cell properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple cells were selected.

If multiple table cells were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting, for example, the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.

With this update, selecting multiple cells, invoking the cell properties dialog, and removing `height` values across the selected cells works as expected, with all cell heights deleted at once.

=== When multiple rows were selected, removing values in the row properties dialog did not work

Previously, when dealing with {productname} tables with two or more rows, the row properties dialog box did not honour deleting values when multiple rows were selected.

> If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table with two or more columns and the cell properties dialog was invoked, deleting, for example, the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each cell was selected individually, invoking the cell properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple table rows were selected in a {productname} table and the row properties dialog was invoked, deleting, for example, the `height` value in the dialog box had no effect. However, if each row was selected individually, invoking the row properties dialog and deleting the `height` value worked as expected.
```

> With this update, selecting multiple cells, invoking the cell properties dialog, and removing height values across the selected cells works as expected, with all cell heights deleted at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, selecting multiple rows, invoking the row properties dialog, and removing height values across the selected cells works as expected, with all row heights deleted at once.
```
